---
sidebar_label: 'Copper'
---

# Blueprint: Copper

This blueprint of Nango for the Copper API makes it very easy to work with the Copper REST API and automates common tasks such as OAuth 2 authentication, requests authorization, logging, rate-limit handling, error handling and automatic retries.

[Copper REST API Docs](https://developer.copper.com/)  |  [API gotchas & learnings](#gotchas)

Last updated: 12.08.2022

## How to use it
To create your own integration based on the Copper blueprint add this to your `integrations.yaml` file:

```yaml title=integrations.yaml
    copper:
        extends_blueprint: copper:v0

```
The Copper API uses a [User's email plus an api key as password for authorization](https://developer.copper.com/introduction/authentication.html/). The API key can be generated by your user in Copper and should then be supplied to your frontend together with that user's Copper e-mail address. Once you have it you can register the user's Connection in Nango with a call to [`registerConnection`](reference/SDKs/node.md#registerConnection) like this:

```js title="In your backend, using the Nango SDK"

let credentials = {
    username: '<E-Mail of the user from your frontend/user>',
    password: '<Copper API Key from your frontend/user>'
};

await nango.registerConnection('copper', '<user-id>', credentials);
// Connection registered, you can now start executing Copper actions for this user
```

### Coverage
Blueprint `v0` covers the Copper REST API.

The base URL for API calls is set to `https://api.copper.com/developer_api/`

| Nango Feature | Supported Status | 
|---|---|
| Rate limit detection | ✅ |
| Retries on timeout | ✅ |
| Use any endpoint of the Copper Harvest API | ✅ |

## Copper API gotchas & learnings {#gotchas}
_These are community contributed field notes about working with this API. We hope they help you!_

- Nothing here yet, add yours!

:::info Share your experience
Learned something about working with the Copper API that you want to share with other developers? [Add it to this page](https://github.com/NangoHQ/nango/edit/main/docs/docs/blueprint-catalog/blueprint-copper.md) (it is just a markdown file) and send us a pull request. Thanks so much!
:::